Blog Post for reassigning partitions (#252)
strimzi/strimzi.github.io: _posts/2021-09-23-reassign-partitions.md

In Strimzi it can be easily done by the help of the partition reassignment tool

<!--more-->

## Partition Reassignment Tool

Within a broker pod, the kafka-reassign-partitions.sh tool allows you to reassign partitions to different brokers.

It has three different modes:

`--generate`
It takes a set of topics and brokers and generates a reassignment JSON file which will result in the partitions of those topics being assigned to those brokers. Because this operates on whole topics, it cannot be used when you only want to reassign some partitions of some topics.

`--execute`
This takes a reassignment JSON file and applies it to the partitions and brokers in the cluster. Brokers that gain partitions as a result become followers of the partition leader. For a given partition, once the new broker has caught up and joined the ISR (in-sync replicas) the old broker will stop being a follower and will delete its replica.

`--verify`

> Using the same reassignment JSON file as the --execute step, --verify checks whether all the partitions in the file have been moved to their intended brokers. If the reassignment is complete, --verify also removes any traffic throttles (--throttle) that are in effect. Unless removed, throttles will continue to affect the cluster even after the reassignment has finished.

Reviewer: I think this could do with some formatting => making it a list or table or something. It looks a bit weird when it renders (https://deploy-preview-252--strimzi.netlify.app/blog/2021/09/23/reassign-partitions/) with the options starting the sentences.

While using the tool, you have to provide it with two essential json files which are `topics.json` and `reassignment.json`,

> So wondering what these two json files really do? Let discuss a bit about them

Reviewer: ```suggestion
So wondering what these two json files really do? Let discuss a bit about them:
```

- The `topic.json` basically consist of the topics that we desire to reassign or move. On the basis of this json file our tool will generate a proposal `reassignment.json` which we can futher use.
  
- The `reassignment.json` file is also generated by the user itself but the content for it is generated by the tool, after we feed the tool with the `topic.json file`. We can save that proposal json and use it in the json file.

> ## Why use the Partition Reassignment Tool ?

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Why use the Partition Reassignment Tool?
```

There can be various cases in which you can require the use of the Reassignment Partition Tool :-

Some of the use cases are listed below :-

1. There can be cases when you want to shutdown/remove your old broker pod from the cluster and start with some new broker pod. In this scenario the new pod won't get the partitions assigned to it. So you will have to reassgin the partition among all the brokers.

2. It can also be used at times when you want to expand you cluster. You can add more brokers to your clusters and after that use the reassignment partition tool to assign the partitions to the newly generated brokers

## Example Time

Let's have a look at an example which will show us how we can use the partition reassignent tool.
In this example we will be taking a look at how the `--generate` mode of the partitional reassignment tool is used.
We will generate the json data which will be used in the `reassignment.json` file.
The Kafka Cluster that we will use will be configured to use TLS encryption and we will be using simple authentication.
The configurations can be changed accordingly. Strimzi provides us with many authentication types like TLS, SCRAM-SHA-512, OAUTH and PLAIN

> 

Reviewer: Double line

```yaml
apiVersion: kafka.strimzi.io/v1beta2
kind: KafkaUser
metadata:
  name: my-user
  labels:
    strimzi.io/cluster: my-cluster
spec:
  authentication:
    type: tls
  authorization:
    type: simple
    acls:
      - resource:
          type: topic
          name: my-topic
          patternType: literal
        operation: Write
        host: "*"
      - resource:
          type: topic
          name: my-topic-1
          patternType: literal
        operation: Read
        host: "*"
      - resource:
          type: topic
          name: my-topic
          patternType: literal
        operation: Describe
        host: "*"        
      - resource:
          type: topic
          name: my-topic-1
          patternType: literal
        operation: Describe
        host: "*"
  # ...
```

### Procedure

Once you have a running cluster with topics and the brokers, now you are ready to create the proposal json data.
The fist step would be to extract the certificates and key for the cluster and the user in order to authenticate via Tls.

Let us proceed toward extracting the cluster CA certificate and password.

> We can extract both of them easily from the <CLUSTER-NAME>-cluster-ca-cert Secret (where <CLUSTER-NAME> denotes the name of the cluster) using the following commands :-

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We can extract both of them easily from the `<CLUSTER-NAME>-cluster-ca-cert` Secret (where `<CLUSTER-NAME>` denotes the name of the cluster) using the following commands:
```

---
layout: post
title:  "Reassign partitions in Kafka Cluster"
date: 2021-09-23
author: shubham_rawat
---

> Scaling Kafka Brokers, removing old brokers and the increasing no. of topics and partitions are all pretty common tasks for Kafka users.

Reviewer 2: Don't abbreviate "number" when used in a main paragraph.

> Scaling Kafka Brokers, removing old brokers and the increasing no. of topics and partitions are all pretty common tasks for Kafka users.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Scaling Kafka Brokers, removing old brokers, and the increasing the number of topics and partitions are all pretty common tasks for Kafka users.
```

> All these cases cause the load on the brokers to get unbalanced, so to manage this, the most convenient way is to reassign the partitions among all the brokers.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
All these cases can cause the load on the brokers to get unbalanced. The most convenient way to manage an unbalanced cluster is to reassign the partitions among all the brokers.
```

In Strimzi, this is easily done with the help of the partition reassignment tool: `kafka-reassign-partitions.sh`.

<!--more-->

> ## Partition Reassignment Tool

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
## Partition Reassignment tool
```

> Within a broker pod, the kafka-reassign-partitions.sh tool allows you to reassign partitions to different brokers.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Within a broker pod, the `kafka-reassign-partitions.sh` tool allows you to reassign partitions to different brokers.
```

It has three different modes:

> | Modes | Description |

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
| Mode | Description |
```

| :-----------: | ------------- |

> | `generate`  | It takes a set of topics and brokers and generates a reassignment JSON file which will result in the partitions of those                     topics being assigned to those brokers. Because this operates on whole topics, it cannot be used when you only want to                       reassign some partitions of some topics.|
> | `execute` | This takes a reassignment JSON file and applies it to the partitions and brokers in the cluster. Brokers that gain partitions                 as a result become followers of the partition leader. For a given partition, once the new broker has caught up and joined                    the ISR (in-sync replicas) the old broker will stop being a follower and will delete its replica. |
> | `verify`  | Using the same reassignment JSON file as the --execute step, --verify checks whether all the partitions in the file have been moved to their intended brokers. If the reassignment is complete, --verify also removes any traffic throttles (--throttle) that are in effect. Unless removed, throttles will continue to affect the cluster even after the reassignment has finished. |

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
| `generate`  | Takes a set of topics and brokers and generates a reassignment JSON file which will result in the partitions of those topics being assigned to those brokers. Because this operates on whole topics, it cannot be used when you only want to reassign some partitions for some topics.|
| `execute` | Takes a reassignment JSON file and applies it to the partitions and brokers in the cluster. Brokers that gain partitions as a result become followers of the partition leader. For a given partition, once the new broker has caught up and joined the ISR (in-sync replicas) the old broker will stop being a follower and will delete its replica. |
| `verify`  | Using the same reassignment JSON file as the `--execute` step, `--verify` checks whether all the partitions in the file have been moved to their intended brokers. If the reassignment is complete, `--verify` also removes any traffic throttles (`--throttle`) that are in effect. Unless removed, throttles will continue to affect the cluster even after the reassignment has finished. |
```

> While using the tool, you have to provide it with two essential json files which are `topics.json` and `reassignment.json`.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
While using the tool, you have to provide it with two essential JSON files which are `topics.json` and `reassignment.json`.
```

> So wondering what these two json files really do? Let discuss a bit about them:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Wondering what these two JSON files really do? Let's talk a bit about them:
```

> - The `topic.json` basically consists of the topics that we want to reassign or move. Based on this json file, our tool will generate a proposal `reassignment.json` which we can further use.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- The `topic.json` basically consists of the topics that we want to reassign or move. Based on this JSON file, our tool will generate a proposal `reassignment.json` which we can further use.
```

> - The `reassignment.json` file is also generated by the user itself but the content for it is generated by the tool, after we feed the tool with the `topic.json` file.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- The `reassignment.json` file is generated by the user, but the content for it is generated by the tool after we feed the tool with the `topic.json` file.
```

>   We can save that proposal json and use it in the json file.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
  We can save that proposal JSON and use it in the JSON file.
```

> ## Why use the Partition Reassignment Tool?

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
## Why use the Partition Reassignment tool?
```

> The Partition Reassignment Tool can help you address a variety of use cases.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The Partition Reassignment tool can help you address a variety of use cases.
```

> Some of these are listed below :-

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Some of these are listed here:
```

1. There might be cases when you want to shutdown/remove your old broker pod from the cluster and start with some new broker pod.
   In this scenario, the new pod won't get the partitions assigned to it. So you will have to reassign the
   partitions among all the brokers.

2. It can also be used at times when you want to expand you cluster.
   You can add more brokers to your clusters and after that use the partition reassignment tool to assign the
   partitions to the newly generated brokers.

> ## Example Time

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
## Example time
```

Let's have a look at an example which will show us how we can use the partition reassignment tool.
In this example we will be taking a look at how the `--generate` mode of the partition reassignment tool is used.

> We will generate the json data which will be used in the `reassignment.json` file.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
We will generate the JSON data which will be used in the `reassignment.json` file.
```

> The Kafka Cluster that we will use will be configured to use TLS encryption and we will be using simple authentication.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The Kafka Cluster that we will use will be configured to use TLS encryption, and we will be using simple authentication.
```

The configurations can be changed accordingly. Strimzi provides us with many authentication types like *TLS*, *SCRAM-SHA-512*, *OAUTH* and *PLAIN*.

### Preparation

This example will use a Kafka cluster deployed with the Strimzi Cluster Operator.
Before we start with anything, we have to install the Strimzi Cluster Operator and deploy the Kafka cluster.
You can install the Cluster Operator with any installation method you prefer.

> and then deploy the Kafka cluster with the TLS client authentication enabled on port 9093 :

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
And then deploy the Kafka cluster with the TLS client authentication enabled on port 9093.
```

> 

Reviewer 3: .Example Kafka configuration for TLS authentication

Reviewer 3: Title for config example^^

kind: Kafka
metadata:
  name: my-cluster
spec:
  kafka:
    replicas: 3
    listeners:
      - name: tls
        port: 9093
        type: internal
        tls: true
        authentication:
          type: tls
    authorization:
      type: simple
    config:
      offsets.topic.replication.factor: 3
      transaction.state.log.replication.factor: 3
      transaction.state.log.min.isr: 2
    storage:
      type: jbod
      volumes:
      - id: 0
        type: persistent-claim
        size: 100Gi
        deleteClaim: true
  zookeeper:
    replicas: 3
    storage:
      type: persistent-claim
      size: 100Gi
      deleteClaim: true
  entityOperator:
    topicOperator: {}
    userOperator: {}
```

Once the cluster is running, lets deploy some topics where we will send and receive the messages.
Here is an example topic configuration. You can change it to suit your requirements.

```yaml
apiVersion: kafka.strimzi.io/v1beta2
kind: KafkaTopic
metadata:
  name: my-topic
  labels:
    strimzi.io/cluster: my-cluster
spec:
  partitions: 10
  replicas: 3
  config:
    retention.ms: 7200000
    segment.bytes: 1073741824
    # ...
```

Once the cluster is running, we will need a user.

> We will configure the user for TLS client authentication and configure authorization to allow it to send and receive examples from a topics named `my-topic`, `my-topic-1`,  and so on :

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
We will configure the user for TLS client authentication and configure authorization to allow it to send and receive messages from topics named `my-topic` and `my-topic-1`:
```

```yaml
apiVersion: kafka.strimzi.io/v1beta2
kind: KafkaUser
metadata:
  name: my-user
  labels:
    strimzi.io/cluster: my-cluster
spec:
  authentication:
    type: tls
  authorization:
    type: simple
    acls:
      - resource:
          type: topic
          name: my-topic
          patternType: literal
        operation: Write
        host: "*"
      - resource:
          type: topic
          name: my-topic-1
          patternType: literal
        operation: Read
        host: "*"
      - resource:
          type: topic
          name: my-topic
          patternType: literal
        operation: Describe
        host: "*"        
      - resource:
          type: topic
          name: my-topic-1
          patternType: literal
        operation: Describe
        host: "*"
  # ...
```

### Procedure

Once you have a running cluster with topics and the brokers, now you are ready to create the proposal json data.

> The fist step would be to extract the certificates and key for the cluster and the user in order to authenticate via Tls.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The fist step would be to extract the certificates and key for the cluster and the user in order to authenticate using TLS.
```

Let us proceed toward extracting the cluster CA certificate and password.

> We can extract both of them easily from the `<CLUSTER-NAME>-cluster-ca-cert` Secret (where `<CLUSTER-NAME>` denotes the name of the cluster) using the following commands :-

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
We can extract both of them easily from the `<CLUSTER-NAME>-cluster-ca-cert` Secret (where `<CLUSTER-NAME>` denotes the name of the cluster) using the following commands:
```

```sh
kubectl get secret CLUSTER-NAME-cluster-ca-cert -o jsonpath='{.data.ca\.p12}' | base64 -d > ca.p12
```

```sh
kubectl get secret CLUSTER-NAME-cluster-ca-cert -o jsonpath='{.data.ca\.password}' | base64 -d > ca.password
```

Before proceeding toward extracting the user credentials, create a separate interactive pod.
This interactive pod will be used to run all the reassignment commands. 

> One question might bug you, what is the need of a separate pod. Can't We use one of the broker pods?

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
One question might bug you. What is the need of a separate pod? Can't We use one of the broker pods?
```

The answer to this is running commands from within a broker is not a good practice and is insecure. So it is always better to avoid running the command from a broker pod.

So now it's time to get our interactive pod up and running. You can use the following command:

```sh
kubectl run --restart=Never --image=quay.io/strimzi/kafka:latest-kafka-2.8.0 <interactive_pod_name> -- /bin/sh -c "sleep 3600"
```

Wait till the pod gets into the `Ready` state. Once the pod gets into `Ready` state, now our next step will be to copy the CA certificate to the interactive pod container:

```sh
kubectl cp ca.p12 <interactive_pod_name>:/tmp
```

> We can now proceed to fetch the CA certificate and password for the user. User CA certifactes and password can be extracted from the User Secret like this :
> 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
We can now proceed to fetch the CA certificate and password for the user. User CA certificates and passwords are extracted from the User Secret like this:

```

```sh
kubectl get secret <kafka_user> -o jsonpath='{.data.user\.p12}' | base64 -d > user.p12
```

```sh
kubectl get secret <kafka_user> -o jsonpath='{.data.user\.password}' | base64 -d > user.password
```

Copy the User CA certificates to the interactive pod container.

```sh
kubectl cp user.p12 <interactive_pod_name>:/tmp
```

> The interactive pod now have both user and cluster CA certificates. 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The interactive pod now has both user and cluster CA certificates. 
```

Next, we will configure the Kafka clients to connect to our Kafka cluster and authenticate.
The truststore and the keystore location are mapped to their respective location (which is the folder inside the interactive pod container, since all of our commands will be executed inside the shell process of the interactive pod).
And the configuration provider will use these values.
We will also configure the `bootstrap.servers` option to make it easier to change address to connect to the Kafka cluster.

```properties
bootstrap.servers=<kafka_cluster_name>-kafka-bootstrap:9093 
security.protocol=SSL 
ssl.truststore.location=/tmp/ca.p12 
ssl.truststore.password=<truststore_password_present_in_ca_password_file> 
ssl.keystore.location=/tmp/user.p12 
ssl.keystore.password=<keystore_password_present_in_user_password_file> 
```

> Now we will copy the config.properties file to the interactive pod container:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Now we will copy the `config.properties` file to the interactive pod container:
```

```sh
kubectl cp config.properties <interactive_pod_name>:/tmp/config.properties
```

> Lets create a topics.json file now. As we discussed above this file will have the topics that we need to reassign:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Lets create a `topics.json` file now. As we discussed above this file will have the topics that we need to reassign:
```

```json
{
  "version": 1,
  "topics": [
    { "topic": "my-topic-1"},
    { "topic": "my-topic-2"}
  ]
}
```

After the creation of this file, copy it to the interactive pod container since we will be running all of our commands from there:

```sh
kubectl cp topics.json <interactive_pod_name>:/tmp/topics.json
```

We can now start a shell process in our interactive pod container and run the command inside it to generate our proposal `reassignment.json` data.

> Let us start the shell process

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Let us start the shell process:
```

```sh
kubectl exec -n <namespace> -ti <interactive_pod_name> /bin/bash
```

> Now its time for the final step. 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Now it's time for the final step. 
```

> We will use the `kafka-reassign-partitions.sh` command to generate our proposal `reassignment.json` data

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
We will use the `kafka-reassign-partitions.sh` command to generate our proposal `reassignment.json` data:
```

```sh
bin/kafka-reassign-partitions.sh --bootstrap-server my-cluster-kafka-bootstrap:9093 \
--command-config /tmp/config.properties \
--topics-to-move-json-file /tmp/topics.json \
--broker-list 0,1,2 \
--generate
```

> Once you run this command, you will be able to see the json data which is generated by the partition reassignment tool.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Once you run this command, you will be able to see the JSON data which is generated by the partition reassignment tool.
```

Now you can copy and save this data to use in the `reassignment.json` file.

# Conclusion and What lies beyond the example

This example only used the `--generate` mode of the tool, which is first most essential step for doing any reassignment of partitions.

> The generated proposal json data is used for the `reassignment.json` file, which we will use further during reassignment.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The generated proposal JSON data is used for the `reassignment.json` file, which we will use further during reassignment.
```

---
layout: post
title:  "Reassign partitions in Kafka Cluster"
date: 2021-09-23
author: shubham_rawat
---

> Scaling Kafka Brokers, removing old brokers, and increasing the number of topics and partitions are all pretty common tasks for Kafka users.

Reviewer: What does `removing old brokers` mean in Strimzi context?

> All these cases can cause the load on the brokers to get unbalanced. The most convenient way to manage an unbalanced cluster is to reassign the partitions among all the brokers.

Reviewer: Do we really want to put the focus on cluster balancing here? We have Cruise Control and KafkaRebalance for this and we should point users to that and not to the manual reassignment.

> In Strimzi, this is easily done with the help of the partition reassignment tool: `kafka-reassign-partitions.sh`.

Reviewer: We should make it clear that this is an Apache Kafka tool and not Strimzi tool.

<!--more-->

## Partition Reassignment tool

> Within a broker pod, the `kafka-reassign-partitions.sh` tool allows you to reassign partitions to different brokers.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Within a broker pod, the `bin/kafka-reassign-partitions.sh` tool allows you to reassign partitions to different brokers.
```

It has three different modes:

| Mode | Description |
| :-----------: | ------------- |

> | `generate`  | Takes a set of topics and brokers and generates a reassignment JSON file which will result in the partitions of those                     topics being assigned to those brokers. Because this operates on whole topics, it cannot be used when you only want to reassign some partitions for some topics.|

Reviewer: Why the long space in the middle?

> | `execute` | Takes a reassignment JSON file and applies it to the partitions and brokers in the cluster. Brokers that gain partitions                 as a result become followers of the partition leader. For a given partition, once the new broker has caught up and joined the ISR (in-sync replicas) the old broker will stop being a follower and will delete its replica. |

Reviewer: Same as above, why the long space in the middle?

Reviewer: The `gain` sounds a a bit weird here to me. You should probably use some longer description which explains what exactly does it mean.

| `verify`  | Using the same reassignment JSON file as the `--execute` step, `--verify` checks whether all the partitions in the file have been moved to their intended brokers. If the reassignment is complete, `--verify` also removes any traffic throttles (`--throttle`) that are in effect. Unless removed, throttles will continue to affect the cluster even after the reassignment has finished. |

While using the tool, you have to provide it with two essential JSON files: `topics.json` and `reassignment.json`.
Wondering what these two JSON files really do? Let's talk a bit about them:

- The `topic.json` basically consists of the topics that we want to reassign or move. Based on this JSON file, our tool will generate a proposal `reassignment.json` which we can further use.
  
- The `reassignment.json` file is also generated by the user, but the content for it is generated by the tool, after we feed the tool with the `topic.json` file.

>   We can save that proposal JSON and use it in the JSON file.

Reviewer: Can't we also as an alternative write the reassingment.json directly by hand? This suggests you need to have it generated.

> ## Why use the Partition Reassignment tool?

Reviewer: Isn't the main use-case for the reassignment tool in Strimzi context in adding partitions / replicas to existing topics? That seems to be completely missing here.

The Partition Reassignment tool can help you address a variety of use cases.

Some of these are listed here :-

1. There might be cases when you want to shutdown/remove your old broker pod from the cluster and start with some new broker pod.
   In this scenario, the new pod won't get the partitions assigned to it. So you will have to reassign the

>    partitions among all the brokers.

Reviewer: This is not how it works with Strimzi. You can scale up the cluster in which a new broker with the next-in-line index number will be added or scale it down in which case the highest index broker will be removed. A Strimzi blog post should reflect how Strimzi works. And not refer to removing old and adding new brokers which is not really possible.

```yaml
apiVersion: kafka.strimzi.io/v1beta2
kind: Kafka
metadata:
  name: my-cluster
spec:
  kafka:
    replicas: 3
    listeners:
      - name: tls
        port: 9093
        type: internal
        tls: true
        authentication:
          type: tls
    authorization:
      type: simple
    config:
      offsets.topic.replication.factor: 3
      transaction.state.log.replication.factor: 3
      transaction.state.log.min.isr: 2
    storage:
      type: jbod
      volumes:
      - id: 0
        type: persistent-claim
        size: 100Gi
        deleteClaim: true
  zookeeper:
    replicas: 3
    storage:
      type: persistent-claim
      size: 100Gi
      deleteClaim: true
  entityOperator:
    topicOperator: {}
    userOperator: {}
```

Once the cluster is running, lets deploy some topics where we will send and receive the messages.
Here is an example topic configuration. You can change it to suit your requirements.

```yaml
apiVersion: kafka.strimzi.io/v1beta2
kind: KafkaTopic
metadata:
  name: my-topic
  labels:
    strimzi.io/cluster: my-cluster
spec:
  partitions: 10
  replicas: 3
  config:
    retention.ms: 7200000
    segment.bytes: 1073741824
    # ...
```

> Once the cluster is running, we will need a user.

Reviewer: You have `Once the cluster is running` twice ... here and before the previous example. I guess once would be enough.

We will configure the user for TLS client authentication and configure authorization to allow it to send and receive examples from a topics named `my-topic` and 
`my-topic-1`:

```yaml
apiVersion: kafka.strimzi.io/v1beta2
kind: KafkaUser
metadata:
  name: my-user
  labels:
    strimzi.io/cluster: my-cluster
spec:
  authentication:
    type: tls
  authorization:
    type: simple
    acls:
      - resource:
          type: topic
          name: my-topic
          patternType: literal
        operation: Write
        host: "*"
      - resource:
          type: topic
          name: my-topic-1
          patternType: literal
        operation: Read
        host: "*"
      - resource:
          type: topic
          name: my-topic
          patternType: literal
        operation: Describe
        host: "*"        
      - resource:
          type: topic
          name: my-topic-1
          patternType: literal
        operation: Describe
        host: "*"
  # ...
```

### Procedure

Once you have a running cluster with topics and the brokers, now you are ready to create the proposal json data.

> The fist step would be to extract the certificates and key for the cluster and the user in order to authenticate using Tls.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The fist step would be to extract the certificates and key for the cluster and the user in order to authenticate using TLS client authentication.
```

Let us proceed toward extracting the cluster CA certificate and password.
We can extract both of them easily from the `<CLUSTER-NAME>-cluster-ca-cert` Secret (where `<CLUSTER-NAME>` denotes the name of the cluster) using the following commands:

```sh
kubectl get secret CLUSTER-NAME-cluster-ca-cert -o jsonpath='{.data.ca\.p12}' | base64 -d > ca.p12
```

```sh
kubectl get secret CLUSTER-NAME-cluster-ca-cert -o jsonpath='{.data.ca\.password}' | base64 -d > ca.password
```

Before proceeding toward extracting the user credentials, create a separate interactive pod.
This interactive pod will be used to run all the reassignment commands. 
One question might bug you. What is the need of a separate pod? Can't We use one of the broker pods?
The answer to this is running commands from within a broker is not a good practice and is insecure. So it is always better to avoid running the command from a broker pod.

So now it's time to get our interactive pod up and running. You can use the following command:

```sh

> kubectl run --restart=Never --image=quay.io/strimzi/kafka:latest-kafka-2.8.0 <interactive_pod_name> -- /bin/sh -c "sleep 3600"

Reviewer: Using the latest release should be prefered over the `:latest...` images.

```

Wait till the pod gets into the `Ready` state. Once the pod gets into `Ready` state, now our next step will be to copy the CA certificate to the interactive pod container:

```sh
kubectl cp ca.p12 <interactive_pod_name>:/tmp
```

> We can now proceed to fetch the CA certificate and password for the user. User CA certificate and password are extracted from the User Secret like this :

Reviewer: It is not CA certifciate here. It is only user certificate in both cases here.

Reviewer 4: How can I get/create these, if I have 0 kafka users? I am unable to find any how-to on TLS users.

```sh
kubectl get secret <kafka_user> -o jsonpath='{.data.user\.p12}' | base64 -d > user.p12
```

```sh
kubectl get secret <kafka_user> -o jsonpath='{.data.user\.password}' | base64 -d > user.password
```

Copy the User CA certificates to the interactive pod container.

```sh
kubectl cp user.p12 <interactive_pod_name>:/tmp
```

The interactive pod now has both user and cluster CA certificates. 

Next, we will configure the Kafka clients to connect to our Kafka cluster and authenticate.
The truststore and the keystore location are mapped to their respective location (which is the folder inside the interactive pod container, since all of our commands will be executed inside the shell process of the interactive pod).
And the configuration provider will use these values.
We will also configure the `bootstrap.servers` option to make it easier to change address to connect to the Kafka cluster.

```properties

> bootstrap.servers=<kafka_cluster_name>-kafka-bootstrap:9093 

Reviewer: You already named the Kafka cluster `my-cluster` ... so maybe you should use it here?

security.protocol=SSL 
ssl.truststore.location=/tmp/ca.p12 
ssl.truststore.password=<truststore_password_present_in_ca_password_file> 
ssl.keystore.location=/tmp/user.p12 
ssl.keystore.password=<keystore_password_present_in_user_password_file> 
```

Now we will copy the `config.properties` file to the interactive pod container:

```sh
kubectl cp config.properties <interactive_pod_name>:/tmp/config.properties
```

Lets create a `topics.json` file now. As we discussed above this file will have the topics that we need to reassign:

```json
{
  "version": 1,
  "topics": [
    { "topic": "my-topic-1"},

>     { "topic": "my-topic-2"}

Reviewer: Before you talked about `my-topic` and `my-topic-1`. Here it is `my-topic-1` and `my-topic-2`. Is that correct?

  ]
}
```

After the creation of this file, copy it to the interactive pod container since we will be running all of our commands from there:

```sh
kubectl cp topics.json <interactive_pod_name>:/tmp/topics.json
```

We can now start a shell process in our interactive pod container and run the command inside it to generate our proposal `reassignment.json` data.
Let us start the shell process:

```sh

> kubectl exec -n <namespace> -ti <interactive_pod_name> /bin/bash

Reviewer: You did not use namespace in the `kubectl run` and `kubectl cp` commands. So maybe you should avoid it here as well?

    strimzi.io/cluster: my-cluster
spec:
  authentication:
    type: tls
  authorization:
    type: simple
    acls:
      - resource:
          type: topic
          name: my-topic
          patternType: literal
        operation: Write
        host: "*"
      - resource:
          type: topic
          name: my-topic-1
          patternType: literal
        operation: Read
        host: "*"
      - resource:
          type: topic
          name: my-topic
          patternType: literal
        operation: Describe
        host: "*"        
      - resource:
          type: topic
          name: my-topic-1
          patternType: literal
        operation: Describe
        host: "*"
  # ...
```

### Procedure

Once you have a running cluster with topics and the brokers, now you are ready to create the proposal json data.
The fist step would be to extract the certificates and key for the cluster and the user in order to authenticate via Tls.

Let us proceed toward extracting the cluster CA certificate and password.
We can extract both of them easily from the <CLUSTER-NAME>-cluster-ca-cert Secret (where <CLUSTER-NAME> denotes the name of the cluster) using the following commands :-

> ```

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
```sh
```

we use in other blog posts. Not sure what's the exact difference.

kubectl get secret CLUSTER-NAME-cluster-ca-cert -o jsonpath='{.data.ca\.p12}' | base64 -d > ca.p12
```

```
kubectl get secret CLUSTER-NAME-cluster-ca-cert -o jsonpath='{.data.ca\.password}' | base64 -d > ca.password
```

Before proceeding toward extracting the user credentials, create a separate interactive pod 
This interactive pod will be used to run all the reassignment commands. 
One question might bug you, what is the need of a separate pod. Can't We use one of the broker pods?
The answer to this is running commands from within a broker is not a good practice and is insecure. So it is always better to avoid running the command from a broker pod.

> So now it's time to get our interactive pod up and running 

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
So now it's time to get our interactive pod up and running. You can use the following command:
```

```
kubectl run --restart=Never --image=quay.io/strimzi/kafka:latest-kafka-2.8.0 <interactive_pod_name> -- /bin/sh -c "sleep 3600"
```

> Wait till the pod gets into the `Ready` state. Once the pod gets into `Ready` state, now our next step will be to copy the CA certificate to the interactive pod container 

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
Wait till the pod gets into the `Ready` state. Once the pod gets into `Ready` state, now our next step will be to copy the CA certificate to the interactive pod container:
```

```
kubectl cp ca.p12 <interactive_pod_name>:/tmp
```

> We can now proceed to fetch the CA certificate and password for the user. User CA certifactes and password can be extracted from the User Secret

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
We can now proceed to fetch the CA certificate and password for the user. User CA certificate and password can be extracted from the User Secret like this:
```

```
kubectl get secret <kafka_user> -o jsonpath='{.data.user\.p12}' | base64 -d > user.p12
```

```
kubectl get secret <kafka_user> -o jsonpath='{.data.user\.password}' | base64 -d > user.password
```

> Copy the User CA certificates to the interactive pod container.

Reviewer 5: Maybe you can add a command which copies the secrets?

Reviewer 5: Or maybe just mention that users can use the same command which is used for CA cert copy?

The interactive pod now have both user and cluster CA certificates. 

Next, we will configure the Kafka clients to connect to our Kafka cluster and authenticate.

> The truststore and the keystore location are mapped to their respective location (which is the folder inside the interactive pod container, since all of our commands will be executed inside the shell process of the interactive pod).

Reviewer 5: Maybe add example path toe trustore/keystore?

And the configuration provider will use these values.
We will also configure the `bootstrap.servers` option to make it easier to change address to connect to the Kafka cluster.

```properties
bootstrap.servers=<kafka_cluster_name>-kafka-bootstrap:9093 
security.protocol=SSL 
ssl.truststore.location=/tmp/ca.p12 
ssl.truststore.password=<truststore_password_present_in_ca_password_file> 
ssl.keystore.location=/tmp/user.p12 
ssl.keystore.password=<keystore_password_present_in_user_password_file> 
```

> Now we will copy the config.properties file to the interactive pod container 

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
Now we will copy the config.properties file to the interactive pod container:
```

```
kubectl cp config.properties <interactive_pod_name>:/tmp/config.properties
```

> Lets create a topics.json file now. As we discussed above this file will have the topics that we need to reassign.

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
Lets create a topics.json file now. As we discussed above this file will have the topics that we need to reassign:
```

```
{
  "version": 1,
  "topics": [
    { "topic": "my-topic-1"},
    { "topic": "my-topic-2"}
  ]
}
```

> After the creation of this file, copy it to the interactive pod container since we will be running all of our commands from there. 

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
After the creation of this file, copy it to the interactive pod container since we will be running all of our commands from there:
```

```
kubectl cp topics.json <interactive_pod_name>:/tmp/topics.json
```

We can now start a shell process in our interactive pod container and run the command inside it to generate our proposal `reassignment.json` data.
Let us start the shell process

```
kubectl exec -n <namespace> -ti <interactive_pod_name> /bin/bash
```

Now its time for the final step. 

> We will use the kafka-reassign-partitions.sh command to generate our proposal `reassignment.json` data

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
We will use the `kafka-reassign-partitions.sh` command to generate our proposal `reassignment.json` data
```

```
bin/kafka-reassign-partitions.sh --bootstrap-server my-cluster-kafka-bootstrap:9093 \
--command-config /tmp/config.properties \
--topics-to-move-json-file /tmp/topics.json \
--broker-list 0,1,2 \
--generate
```

Once you run this command, you will be able to see the json data which is generated by the partition reassignment tool.

> Now you can copy and save this data to use in the `reassignment.json file`

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
Now you can copy and save this data to use in the `reassignment.json` file.
```

author: shubham_rawat
---

> Scaling of Kafka Brokers, removal of old brokers and increase in topics/partitions is pretty common to Kafka Users.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Scaling Kafka brokers, removing old brokers and increasing the number of topics and partitions are all pretty common tasks for Kafka users.
```

> All these cases can lead to disbalance of load on the brokers, so to manage this, the most convenient way would be to reassign the partition among all the brokers.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
All these cases can cause the load on the brokers to get unbalanced, so to manage this, the most convenient way is to reassign the partitions among all the brokers.
```

> In Strimzi it can be easily done by the help of the partition reassignment tool

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In Strimzi, this is easily done with the help of the partition reassignment tool: `kafka-reassign-partitions.sh`.
```

It has three different modes:

`--generate`

> It takes a set of topics and brokers and generates a reassignment JSON file which will result in the partitions of those topics being assigned to those brokers. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- It takes a set of topics and brokers and generates a reassignment JSON file which will result in the partitions of those topics being assigned to those brokers. 
```

Because this operates on whole topics, it cannot be used when you only want to reassign some partitions of some topics.

`--execute`

> This takes a reassignment JSON file and applies it to the partitions and brokers in the cluster. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- This takes a reassignment JSON file and applies it to the partitions and brokers in the cluster. 
```

Brokers that gain partitions as a result become followers of the partition leader.
For a given partition, once the new broker has caught up and joined the ISR (in-sync replicas) the old broker will stop being a follower and will delete its replica.

`--verify`

> Using the same reassignment JSON file as the --execute step, --verify checks whether all the partitions in the file have been moved to their intended brokers.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Using the same reassignment JSON file as `--execute`, the `--verify` mode checks whether all the partitions in the file were moved to their intended brokers.
```

> If the reassignment is complete, --verify also removes any traffic throttles (--throttle) that are in effect. Unless removed, throttles will continue to affect the cluster even after the reassignment has finished.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If the reassignment is complete, `--verify` also removes any traffic throttles (`--throttle`) that are in effect. Unless removed, throttles will continue to affect the cluster even after the reassignment has finished.
```

> While using the tool, you have to provide it with two essential json files which are `topics.json` and `reassignment.json`,

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
While using the tool, you have to provide it with two essential json files: `topics.json` and `reassignment.json`.
```

So wondering what these two json files really do? Let discuss a bit about them

> - The `topic.json` basically consist of the topics that we desire to reassign or move. On the basis of this json file our tool will generate a proposal `reassignment.json` which we can futher use.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- The `topics.json` basically consists of the topics that we want to reassign or move. Based on this json file, our tool will generate a proposal `reassignment.json` which we can further use.
```

> - The `reassignment.json` file is also generated by the user itself but the content for it is generated by the tool, after we feed the tool with the `topic.json file`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- The `reassignment.json` file is also generated by the user, but the content for it is generated by the tool, after we feed the tool with the `topics.json file`.
```

  We can save that proposal json and use it in the json file.

## Why use the Partition Reassignment Tool ?

> There can be various cases in which you can require the use of the Reassignment Partition Tool :-

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The Partition Reassignment Tool can help you address a variety of use cases.
```

> Some of the use cases are listed below :-

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Some of these are listed below:
```

> 1. There can be cases when you want to shutdown/remove your old broker pod from the cluster and start with some new broker pod.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. There might be cases when you want to shutdown/remove your old broker pod from the cluster and start with some new broker pod.
```

>    In this scenario the new pod won't get the partitions assigned to it. So you will have to reassign the

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
   In this scenario, the new pod won't get the partitions assigned to it. So you will have to reassign the
```

>    partition among all the brokers.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
   partitions among all the brokers.
```

2. It can also be used at times when you want to expand you cluster.

>    You can add more brokers to your clusters and after that use the reassignment partition tool to assign the

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
   You can add more brokers to your clusters and after that use the partition reassignment tool to assign the
```

>    partitions to the newly generated brokers

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
   partitions to the newly generated brokers.
```

    userOperator: {}
```

Once the cluster is running, lets deploy some topics where we will send and receive the messages.

> Here is an example topic configuration. You can change it as per the requirement

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Here is an example topic configuration. You can change it to suit your requirements.
```

    # ...
```

Once the cluster is running, we will need a user.

> We will configure the user for TLS client authentication and configure authorization to allow it to send and receive examples from a topics named `my-topic`, `my-topic-1` and so on :

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
We will configure the user for TLS client authentication and configure authorization to allow it to send and receive examples from topics named `my-topic`, `my-topic-1`, and so on:
```
